'''
'''	$Header: /annex/common/src/./erpcd/RCS/config.annex.5,v 1.2 1993/11/21 13:48:59 raison Rel $
'''
.ig xy
.TH CONFIG.ANNEX 4 ANNEX
.xy
.ie '\*(sy'V' .TH CONFIG.ANNEX 4 ANNEX
.el .TH CONFIG.ANNEX 5 ANNEX
'''
.if'\*(BU''\{
.ift .ds BU \\s-2\\(bu\\s0
.ifn .ds BU o\}
.if'\*Q''\{
.ds Q \&``
.ds U \&''\}
'''
.SH NAME
config.annex \- Annex configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The default configuration file is
.B config.annex.
It resides on the preferred boot host. This file contains all Annex
configuration information which previously existed in the 
.I gateways, rotaries
or
.I macros
files.
.PP
There are two keywords use in the
.B config.annex
file:
.I include
and 
.I category.
While the former is the way to incorporate a separate file into
the
.B config.annex
file, the latter is the way to organize the entries. The following
details these keywords:
.SH "INCLUDE STATEMENT"
.B syntax:	%include <filename>
.PP
The syntax of the include statement is % sign at the first column
followed by
.I include
keyword, one or more spaces and then the filename. The filename
can be any UNIX legal filename.
.PP
The only restriction in the file is that all the statements in the
file should belong to the same 
.B category.
.SH "CATEGORY STATEMENT"
.sp
.PP
.B syntax:	%keyword
.PP
The
.B category
statement begins with the % sign at the first column followed by
the 
.I keyword.
The
.I keyword
is one of the following:
.I gateway, macro, rotary, modem,
or
.I service.
.PP
The 
.B keyword
statement needs to be specified first before defining each category entry.
Failing to do so will result in a format error.
.PP
All the statements under the
.B %keyword
should belong to the same 
.I category
including any statements in an included file.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
The following is an example of a
.B config.annex
file which contains the 
.I include
and 
.I category
statements described above. The pound sign (#) in the first column in
a line represents a comment.
.Pp
.nf
#
# The following are definitions of the gateways entries
#
%gateway
net 129.91.0.0 gateway 132.245.1.1 metric 1 hardwired

annex 192.9.200.228
	net 129.123.0.0 gateway 132.245.2.1 metric 1 hardwired
end
#
# Configure SNMP
#
snmp community public
snmp traphost 192.9.200.95
.bp
#
# Macro Definition
#
%macro
alias |Show users on the Annex|
	keyin "3" 1-6,10-16,v@192.9.200.245
{
<who
<pause
}
menu "ANNEX MENU"
	keyin "menu1" 1-6,10-16,v@192.9.200.245
	init_cli 1-6,10-16,v@192.9.200.245
	cmd_list bg,fg,hosts,jobs,rlogin,3
{
MY MENU SCREEN
Commands: bg,fg,hosts,jobs,rlogin,3

Enter Command:
}
#
# Rotary Definitions
#
%rotary
titanic_co:	2@192.9.200.232
.SH COMPATIBILITY ISSUES
.PP
Since each entry of the new configuration file is identical to those of 
the old files, the new file parser is able to maintain the backward
compatibility.

.SH SEE ALSO
.ie '\*(sy'V' \{
erpcd(1M), rotaries(4), gateways(4).
\}
.el \{
.br
erpcd(8), rotaries(5), gateways(5)
\}
.br
\f2Annex Network Administrator's Guide\f1.
