'''
'''	$Id: aprint.1,v 1.9 1993/10/07 09:32:48 emond Rel $
'''
.ig xy
.TH APRINT 1M ANNEX
.xy
.ie '\*(sy'V' .TH APRINT 1M ANNEX
.el .TH APRINT 1 ANNEX
'''
.if'\*(BU''\{
.ift .ds BU \\s-2\\(bu\\s0
.ifn .ds BU o\}
.if'\*Q''\{
.ds Q \&``
.ds U \&''\}
'''
.SH NAME
aprint \- Annex remote print command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aprint
.BI \-A annex
[
.BI \-L line
] | [
.BI \-p port
] [
.B \-\^fD
] [
.BI \-F string
] [
.IR files ...
]
.br
.B aprint
[
.BI \-P printer
] [
.B \-\^f
] [
.BI \-F string
] [
.IR files ...
]
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 12n
.BI \-A \ annex
The host name string or
Internet address (in standard Internet dot-separated notation)
of the Annex on which to print.
.TP
.BI \-L \ line
The serial port line number to use for printing on the Annex specified
by
.BR \-A .
If neither this option nor the
.BR \-p
option are specified, or if a value of 0 is given as the line number,
then the parallel port is used.  A value greater than zero specifies a
serial port.  This option cannot be used at the same time as the
.BR \-p
option.
.TP
.BI \-p \ port
The parallel port line number to use for printing on the Annex specified
by
.BR \-A .
This option cannot be used with the
.BR \-L
option.
.TP
.BI \-f
Prevent
.I aprint
from supplying extra form-feeds.
.TP
.BI \-D
Specifies that debug output should be sent to standard output. This option
may be repeated for more detailed information. Level 1: Connect acknowledge
and per file messages. Level 2: Connect setup details.
.TP
.BI \-F \ string
Use
.I string
to produce a form-feed instead of the default string of a single
.BR ^L .
This will override an
.B ff=
capability read from
.IR /etc/printcap .
No form-feeds are produced if the
.B \-f
flag has been given.
.TP
.BR files ...
The file(s) to print; if none are specified, then the standard input
is used.
.TP
.BI \-P \ printer
Use
.I printer
as the printer name to look up in
.IR /etc/printcap .
(OBSOLETE)
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I aprint
utility is intended for sites that either
do not have or cannot modify the
Berkeley printer spooler.
It sends files directly to a printer attached to an Annex,
without the use of a spooling mechanism.
.I Aprint
supports printers connected to either a parallel port
or any of an Annex's serial ports.
The name of the Annex and port to be printed on are specified by the
.B \-A
and
.B \-L
arguments, respectively.
To be backward-compatible with old versions of
.IR aprint ,
it also supports a
.B \-P
argument specifying a printer name to be looked up in the
.I /etc/printcap
file.  The
.B \-A
and
.B \-P
arguments are mutually exclusive.
If neither is given,
.I aprint
will look up in
.IR /etc/printcap
the printer named by either
the value of the
.SM PRINTER
environment variable
or, if that is not set,
the default printer named
.IR lp .
.PP
By default,
.I aprint
will print a form-feed at the start of every file
and at the end of all specified files.
Versions of the Annex operational code previous to R3.0
produced these form-feeds without a means of disabling them.
Since this function should now be produced by host resident software,
.I aprint
will provide them for backward compatibility.
The
.B \-f
flag will prevent
.I aprint
from generating these form-feeds.
.SH FILES
/etc/printcap	printer capabilities data-base
.SH SEE ALSO
.I Annex Network Administrator's Guide
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Most messages are self-explanatory, if not overly verbose.
.br
.SH RESTRICTIONS
Some ports of the Berkeley networking software to System V systems
do not support out-of-band data (MSG_OOB) on sockets.
Since OOB is used in the close handshake of the Annex LPD protocol,
this handshake will not be used on such hosts.
The implication of this is that with two back-to-back invocations of
.I aprint ,
the second can fail because the Annex port will still be busy
from the first print job.
This should not be a problem if
.I aprint
is invoked from within a spooling system
(such as System V lp or Berkeley LPD).
.PP
Revision R7.0 and later of
.I aprint
cannot be used with Annex operational code before revision R3.0,
because the later Annex operational code revisions
use a more elaborate Annex LPD protocol
that provides for acknowledgements
from the Annex to the host
(indicating that the Annex is ready to receive data)
and from the host to the Annex
(marking EOF, among other things).
This makes it possible for
.I aprint
to determine that the Annex has opened the requested
serial or parallel line sucessfully.
