'''
'''	$Header: /annex/common/src/./erpcd/RCS/eservices.5,v 1.3 1993/06/17 09:52:27 bullock Rel $
'''
.ig xy
.TH ESERVICES 4 ANNEX
.xy
.ie '\*(sy'V' .TH ESERVICES 4 ANNEX
.el .TH ESERVICES 5 ANNEX
'''
.if'\*(BU''\{
.ift .ds BU \\s-2\\(bu\\s0
.ifn .ds BU o\}
.if'\*Q''\{
.ds Q \&``
.ds U \&''\}
'''
.SH NAME
eservices \- erpcd network services database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/eservices
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B /etc/eservices
file defines the services that the Annex network server 
.ie '\*(sy'V' .IR erpcd (1M)
.el .IR erpcd (8)
offers.
.PP
.PP
Each line of the file consists of four fields separated by tabs or
spaces.  The fields are:
.TP 4n
\*(BU
a request number identifying the service
.TP
\*(BU
the lowest numbered version supported
.TP
\*(BU
the highest numbered version supported
.TP
\*(BU
the name of the server called to perform the service.
.PP
The two standard services are
.BR bfs ,
the block file server that downloads Annex operational code and
uploads Annex crash dumps,
and
.BR acp ,
the Access Control Protocol server that handles security authorization
requests from an Annex.
.PP
Lines beginning with "#" are comment lines.
The distributed /etc/eservices file is:
.PP
.nf
.ta +9n +8n +7n
# erpc remote programs
#
# prog no.	verlo	verhi	image
#
1	0	0	bfs
#3	0	99	acp
.fi
.PP
Note that the line describing the
.B acp
service is commented out.  Be sure
to read the chapter on security in the
\f2Annex Network Administrator's Guide\f1
before removing this comment.
.SH FILES
/etc/eservices
.SH SEE ALSO
.ie '\*(sy'V' .IR erpcd (1M).
.el .IR erpcd (8).
.br
\f2Annex Network Administrator's Guide\f1.
