'''
'''	$Header: /annex/common/src/./mk_rotaries/RCS/rotaries.5,v 1.5 1993/10/07 09:51:10 emond Rel $
'''
.ig xy
.TH ROTARIES 4 ANNEX
.xy
.ie '\*(sy'V' .TH ROTARIES 4 ANNEX
.el .TH ROTARIES 5 ANNEX
'''
.if'\*(BU''\{
.ift .ds BU \\s-2\\(bu\\s0
.ifn .ds BU o\}
.if'\*Q''\{
.ds Q \&``
.ds U \&''\}
'''
.SH NAME
rotaries \- Annex rotary database
.SH DESCRIPTION
The rotaries database contains entries describing the port rotaries
for any Annexes on the network.  The file, \f3config.annex\f1 is stored in the
directory
.B /usr/spool/erpcd/bfs 
contains all the rotary definition information.
See the \f2Annex Network Administrator's Guide\f1 for more information on
the Annex port server and port rotaries.
.PP
Entries in the rotaries file follow these conventions:
.TP 4n
\*(BU
Lines beginning with \*Q#\*U are comments.
.TP
\*(BU
Blank lines are ignored.
.TP
\*(BU
Lines in the file have a maximum of 132 characters.
.TP
\*(BU
Entries can be continued on the next line by preceding the newline with
\*Q\e\*U.
.TP
\*(BU
The following characters have special meanings:
.B \ \ \ \ :\ \ +\ \ @\ \ /\ \ ,\ \ ;\ \ \e\ \ #
.TP
\*(BU
Any special character except \*Q,\*U can be included in a rotary name by
quoting it with \*Q\e\*U.
.TP
\*(BU
Space and tab characters can be used anywhere except in a rotary name
to improve readability. Keywords must be delimited by space or tab characters.
.PP
Entries have the following syntax:
.sp .5
.RS
.IB
.IR rotary_name :
.B [
.I keyword ...
.B ]
.IR ports @ location
.B [
.RI / auxport
.B ]
.B [
.RI + auxipaddr
.B ]
.B [
;
.IR ports @ location
.B ]
.I ... 
.RE
.PP
.I Rotary_name
is an
.SM ASCII
string terminated by a colon
.RB ( : ).
The maximum length is 32 characters.
The string cannot contain space, tab, or
comma 
.RB ( , )
characters. It can contain other special characters if
they are escaped with a backslash.
.PP
.I Ports
is a list of the serial ports in the rotary.
It can be a number,
a comma-separated list of numbers,
two numbers separated by a dash (indicated an inclusive range),
or a combination of these three formats.
.PP
.I Location
identifies the Annex that has the given ports as a rotary.
It can be either a hostname or an Internet address in dot notation.
The
.I location
can be supplemented with an auxiliary
.SM TCP
port number separated from the Annex identifier by a slash
.RB ( / ).
The Annex will respond to requests to connect at this port in addition
to responding to the well-known
.SM TELNET
port.  The number must be in the range 6000 through 6999.
Finally, the location can also be given an auxiliary Internet address
(as a hostname or in dot notation) separated by a plus sign
.RB ( + ).
The Annex will listen for requests to connect on this auxiliary
Internet address at the well-known
.SM TELNET
port and automatically connect to the given rotary.
.PP
Additional
.IR ports @ location
entries can be given separated by a semi-colon
.RB ( ; )
to indicate a rotary on another Annex with the same name.
.PP
.I Keywords
is a space separated list of optional features.
Currently supported are:
.PP
.B ps=visible
.br
.B ps=invisible
.RS
Determines whether the rotary name is displayed by the
port server when a user is connected to the
.SM TELNET
port of the Annex's primary Internet address.
Rotaries without auxiliary Internet addresses or
auxiliary
.SM TCP
ports are always visible.
.B ps=visible
is the default.
.RE
.PP
.B telnet
.br
.B raw
.br
.B binary
.RS
Determines the protocol used with the rotary.
.B raw
provides a data stream with no character processing and is intended
primarily for program access to the rotary.
.B telnet
is the default, ti configures
.B telnet
as the protocol between the port and the device.
The setting 
.B protocol=binary
configures a binary rotary. The Annex negotiates with the host to
operate in 
.B telnet binary
mode in both directions.
.RE
.PP
.B direct_camp_on=ask
.br
.B direct_camp_on=always
.br
.B direct_camp_on=never
.RS
Determines how port camp-on is handled for rotaries with
an auxiliary Internet address or auxiliary
.SM TCP
port.
.I Camp-on
is the process of waiting for the next free port in the
rotary, if all of its ports are busy when a connection is attempted.
.B ask
indicates that the user is asked to camp-on.
When
.B always
is selected, the user will get the message indicating camp-on has occurred.
If
.B never
is used, then the
.SM TELNET
connection will be refused when the rotary is full.
.B direct_camp_on=ask
is the default except for raw rotaries, in which case
.B never
is the default.
.RE
.PP
.B select=first
.br
.B select=next
.RS
The keyword 
.B select=
defines the order in which the rotary selects ports. If 
.B select=first,
the rotary selects the first available port in the 
.I port_set;
.B select=next
directs the rotary to keep track of the last port that was
selected, and to start its search from that point.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
#
# sample rotary for 2400 bps modems on the network
#
modem_2400: 1,2,3@63.42; 16,1,4 @ annex01; \e
	15@63.42;	12, 1, 4, 5, 6@ annex02
#
# "milking"-machine Annex: a non-networked host's serial ports are
# connected to Annex 63.38 on ports 1-8 and 16.  An auxiliary IP
# address 63.104 has been setup so that users can TELNET directly
# to the rotary.
#
milker: 1-8,16@63.38+63.104

HostC: ps=invisible 1,4,6-9@annex01+132.245.6.80

strip-record: protocol=raw direct_camp_on=always \e
3,8@132.245.6.32/6300

modems: select=next 1-5@annex02
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.ie '\*(sy'V' erpcd(1M).
.el erpcd(8).
.br
\f2Annex Network Administrator's Guide\f1.
