'''
'''	$Header: /annex/common/src/./erpcd/RCS/erpcd.8,v 1.10 1994/02/14 17:02:18 carlson Exp $
'''
.ig xy
.TH ERPCD 1M ANNEX
.xy
.ie '\*(sy'V' .TH ERPCD 1M ANNEX
.el .TH ERPCD 8 ANNEX
'''
.if'\*(BU''\{
.ift .ds BU \\s-2\\(bu\\s0
.ifn .ds BU o\}
.if'\*Q''\{
.ds Q \&``
.ds U \&''\}
'''
.SH NAME
erpcd \- Annex network services daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B erpcd
[
.BR \-\^b \fI\maxcon\fP
] [
.BR \-\^d [ \fI\ udpport\fP ]
] [
.BR \-\^D [ \fIlevel\fP ]
] [
.BR \-\^p
]
.br
	[
.BR \-\^f \fIbfs-directory\fP
] [ 
.BR \-\^g \fIperiod\fP
] [
.BR \-\^s \fIacp-directory\fP
]
.br
	[
.BR \-\^u
[ \fIfilename\fP ] 
] [
.BR \-\^x \fImax_total\fP
]

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 12n
.BI \-b \ max_con 
This option enables blacklisting based on consecutive login failures and sets the maximum
allowed consecutive login failures to \fImax_con\fP, which can be any 
non-negative number.  A value of 0 enables blacklisting on any login failure
(not recommended).
.TP
.BI \-d \ udpport
Change the udp port number used from the default of 121.
The
.B -d
option used without the port number argument turns on socket level
debugging. Note that there is a space between the
.B -d
and the number.
.TP
.BI \-D level
Put
.I erpcd
into debug mode.
.I erpcd
will not detach from the tty and instead prints out extensive
debugging information. The amount of debugging information can
be increased by giving a debugging level with the
.B -D
option. Note that there is no space between
.B -D
and the number.
.TP
.BI \-p
This flag will cause the PID number of the erpcd process started to be
displayed on standard output.  This is useful in start-up/shut-down
scripts which need to save the process ID of the main erpcd daemon.
.TP
.BI \-f path
This option sets the location of the BFS boot files.  The default is
.I /usr/spool/erpcd/bfs.
This is useful when using pre-compiled host tools.  The space between
the
.B -f
and the path is optional.
.TP
.BI \-g \ period
This option sets the period of time, in weeks, over which to apply the non-consecutive 
login failure allowance to \fIperiod\fP, which can be any non-negative 
integer.
.TP
.BI \-s path
This option sets the location of the ACP security files.  The default is
.I /usr/annex.
This is useful when using pre-compiled host tools.  The space between
the
.B -s
and the path is optional.
.TP
.BI \-u \ \f2filename\f1
The
.B -u
option invokes the
.B acp_userinfo
syntax checker on the file
.I filename.
This option does not start an
.B erpcd
daemon, it does syntax checking only. If
.I filename
is omitted, stdin is used.
.TP
.BI \-x \ max_total
Enables blacklisting based on non-consecutive login failures and sets the 
maximum number of allowed login failures(over the number of weeks specified
with the -g option)before the user becomes blacklisted to \fImax_total\fP,
which can be any value between 0 and 20.  A value of 0 enables blacklisting
on any login failure(not recommended).
.TP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I erpcd
is the Annex network services daemon.
It is normally started at boot time from  
.ie '\*(sy'V' \{ .BR /etc/init.d/ethernet ;
see
.IR brc (1M).  \}
.el \{ the
.IR rc (8)
file. \}
.PP
The
.I erpcd
daemon is responsible for two services:
the block file server used by the Annex to access host files,
.IR bfs ,
and the Annex access control protocol server that handles security requests,
.IR acp .
In both cases,
.I erpcd
listens at a well-known
.SM UDP
port (name "erpc", 121/udp)
for messages indicating a request for services from an Annex.
It authenticates these messages and then reads the file
.B eservices
to determine what types of requests to service and which server to execute.
.PP
Although the well-known port can be specified with the
.B \-\^d
.IR number,
the default as specified in
.B eservices
should be used.
.PP
You do not need root privileges to use
the
.B -u
option, and there is no interference with any other 
.B erpcd 
that may be running on the system. Once
.I filename
is error free and added to 
.B acp_userinfo 
you can send the real 
.B erpcd
a USR1 signal to cause it to recache the acp user information.
Syntax errors are reported to stderr.
.PP
The
.I bfs
service is used by the Annex to down-load various host files
from a server host and to up-load crash dump images to 
a server host. All such files are resident in
.B /usr/spool/erpcd/bfs
or its subdirectories.
.ie '\*(sy'V' \{ Subdirectories are used for Annex crash dump files.
The name of the dump
file depends on the Internet address of the Annex.  The first subdirectory is
.BR dump ,
the next is the Internet network number, and the last is the host number (see
.IR inet (3N)).
Directories are created when necessary.
.PP
Below are some examples (all pathnames are relative to
.BR /usr/spool/erpcd/bfs ).
.RS
.PP
.ta +24n +20n +20n
Annex Internet Address	Pathname
.sp .5
63.75	dump/63/0.0.75	(Class A)
.br
131.140.23.1	dump/131.140/23.1	(Class B)
.br
195.46.2.15	dump/195.46.2/15	(Class C)
.RE
.PP \}
.el \{ The dump file is named by prefixing "dump." to the
Internet address of the Annex.
\}
The dump file names are unique
for each Annex but not for each crash dump. An existing dump file is
overwritten if the same Annex crashes again.
A dump file is slightly larger than the amount of memory in the Annex.
.PP
When the Annex boots, it uses the
.I bfs
service to request three files.
First, the boot rom obtains the Annex operational code that is
loaded into Annex main memory. As part of its booting
procedure, the Annex operational code requests the files
.B gateways
and
.BR rotaries.
The Annex first requests this file from the host whose address is
specified by the
.B na
parameter
.BR pref_load_addr .
If this host does not respond, the Annex broadcasts the request.
.PP
An empty or missing
.B config.annex
file simply means there is no configuration.
It is preferable to use an empty file rather than not having the file exist,
as the Annex will find the empty file
and thus won't have to wait for its open request to timeout.
The
.B gateways
category of the 
.B config.annex
file is described in
.ie '\*(sy'V' .IR gateways (4).
.el .IR gateways (5).
The
.B rotaries
category of the
.B config.annex
file is described in
.ie '\*(sy'V' .IR rotaries (4),
.el .IR rotaries (5).
.PP
The
.I acp
service is used by the Annex to implement host based security
policies that govern Annex operations. See the
.IR "Annex Network Administrator's Guide"
for more information on the
.I acp
service.
.SH NOTES
The dump subdirectories should be carefully monitored and any crash
dumps should be sent to your service representative.
.SH FILES
.br
.ie '\*(sy'V' /usr/spool/erpcd/bfs/dump/*	crash dumps
.el /usr/spool/erpcd/bfs/dump.*	crash dumps
.br
/usr/spool/erpcd/bfs/annex.*	Annex images
.br
/usr/spool/erpcd/bfs/oper.*	Annex images
.br
/usr/spool/erpcd/bfs/config.annex
.br
/etc/eservices
.SH SEE ALSO
.ie '\*(sy'V' \{
brc(1M), gateways(4), na(1M), routed(1M).
.br
inet(3N), eservices(4), rotaries(4), config.annex(4).
\}
.el \{
eservices(5), gateways(5), na(8), rc(8),
.br
routed(8C), rotaries(5), config.annex(5).
\}
.br
\f2Annex Network Administrator's Guide\f1.
.SH BUGS
.PP
If the
.B config.annex
file is not present on any host,
the Annex may take up to an extra minute to complete its booting procedures.
.PP
The
.B \-\^d
option takes a space before number;
the 
.B \-\^D
option does not.
