'''
'''	$Header: /annex/common/src/./na/RCS/gateways.5,v 1.6 1993/10/07 10:10:26 emond Rel $
'''
.ig xy
.TH GATEWAYS 4 ANNEX
.xy
.ie '\*(sy'V' .TH GATEWAYS 4 ANNEX
.el .TH GATEWAYS 5 ANNEX
'''
.if'\*(BU''\{
.ift .ds BU \\s-2\\(bu\\s0
.ifn .ds BU o\}
.if'\*Q''\{
.ds Q \&``
.ds U \&''\}
'''
.SH NAME
gateways \- Annex network initialization
.SH DESCRIPTION
When an Annex boots, it reads the
.B gateways
section of the 
.B config.annex
file from
.BR /usr/spool/erpcd/bfs.
This file contains commands to initialize the routing tables of all
Annexes on the local network.
Finally, it can be used to add host names to an annex's host name table.
.PP
For routing information, the Annex
.B gateways
category has a format that corresponds closely to the
.B /etc/gateways
file used by
.ie '\*(sy'V' .IR routed (1M).
.el .IR routed (8C).
That is, you can prep the Annex routing table with routes for
networks and hosts.
However, a few differences exist.
The basic entry has the format:
.br
.sp .5
.RS
.RB { net | host }
.I addr1 
.B gateway
.I addr2
.B metric
.I value
.RB { passive | hardwired }
.RE
.br
.PP
The keywords
.B net
and
.B host
indicate whether the Internet address
.I addr1
specifies a destination network or host. The Internet address
.I addr2
specifies the gateway via which the destination is reached.
.PP
Since the
.SM RIP
implementation on an Annex is listen-only
and does not exchange any routing information with other routers,
the Annex does not have the notion of active gateways.
Thus,
.B active
routes are not supported in the Annex
.B gateways
file.
However, a route learned from an active gateway producing
.SM RIP
broadcasts will be aged.
Thus, if that gateway stops including a route in its routing updates,
the route will eventually be discarded.
.PP
The Annex does support passive gateways,
and the keyword
.B passive
marks a route as such.
This indicates that the gateway
does not generate its own routing information.
The principal effect of a
.B passive
route is to keep a routing
entry from being aged and ultimately discarded.
However, such a route can be overridden by a routing update
containing a better route to the destination.
The Annex also supports the notion of
.B hardwired
(or
.IR fixed )
routes, marked by the keyword
.BR hardwired .
Such a route will never be changed or deleted,
even if a routing update containing a
better route is received by the Annex.
.PP
Finally, the metric
.I value
indicates the number of hops needed to reach the destination.
.PP 
There are a few additional differences between the Annex
.B gateways
category and the
.B /etc/gateways
file used by
.ie '\*(sy'V' .IR routed (1M).
.el .IR routed (8C).
First, all Internet addresses in the Annex
.B gateways
file are required to be specified in standard Internet dot notation.
This is because when the Annex is reading the gateways file,
it is still in the process of booting,
and thus cannot yet do name-to-address translations.
Comments can be placed in the
.B gateways
section and are introduced by a \*Q#\*U character
anywhere on a line and terminated by the end of that line.
Excess white space in the file is ignored.
.PP
If an Annex has syslogging enabled,
it will report errors encountered while reading the
.B gateways
section with an extensive selection of syslog messages.
The messages are self-descriptive
and include the line number of the offending line.
Various information useful for only for debugging
is logged at the the
.I info
and
.I debug
levels.
.PP
In addition to routing information, there are two  
other types of entries possible in the
.B gateways
category.
The first is the conditional:
.br
.sp .5
.nf
.RS
.BI annex \ ipaddr
\0...
.B else
\0...
.B end
.RE
.fi
.br
.PP
The ellipses represent any group of entries normally valid in the
gateways file.
This conditional causes all the entries in the first set of ellipses to be
evaluated only on the Annex that uses the given Internet address
.I ipaddr
for its Ethernet interface.
The optional
.B else
clause causes all the entries in the second set of ellipses to
be evaluated on all Annexes,
except for the Annex that matched the
.B annex
clause.
This can be used to selectively assign routes to hosts,
such as only giving a default route to an external gateway to
certain Annexes.  
.PP
The second additional entry is used for adding host name entries
to the host table of an annex.  The entries are similar to entries
in the
.B /etc/host
file, except aliasing is not supported.  When the Annex boots, it
adds the host name entries in the 
.B gateway
section of the configuration file to its host table.
The format of a host name entry is the Internet Address of the
host followed by the host name. For example:
.br
.sp .5
.RS
192.9.200.2 snoopy
.RE
.br
.PP
Host name entries may be conditional with the use of the
.B annex
and
.B end
statements.  This restricts the loading of the host names to
particular annexes.
.PP
The following is an example: 
.sp
.br
.nf
.RS
annex 132.245.10.7
	net 132.245.5.0 gateway 132.245.99.2 metric 1 hardwired
else
	net 132.245.5.0 gateway 132.245.10.7 metric 2 hardwired
	host 132.245.99.2 gateway 132.245.10.7 metric 2 hardwired
end
.fi
.br
.PP
These entries inform
.I annex01,
ipaddr 132.245.10.7, that 
.I host01,
ipaddr 132.245.99.2, is a gateway to network 132.245.5 and informs
other Annexes on network 132.245.10 that
.I annex01
is a gateway to either 
.I host01
or network 132.245.5.
.RE
.SH BUGS
.PP
The current implementation does not allow the
.BR annex / else / end
clause to be nested.  That is, you cannot use another
.B annex
conditional while already in the scope of another
.B annex
or
.B else
clause.
While an error message will not be generated if they are nested,
the results will not be what is expected.
.SH FILES
/usr/spool/erpcd/bfs/config.annex
.SH SEE ALSO
.ie '\*(sy'V' erpcd(1M), routed(1M), config.annex(5)
.el erpcd(8), routed(8C), config.annex(5)
.br
\f2Annex Network Administrator's Guide\f1

